## Magic Systems

### Magic Vocation Governing Attributes

Different Magic Vocations rely on different attributes. Most traditional fantasy Magic Vocations have RFX and INT as their Magic Governing Attributes, as most magic benefits from quicker casting times and more knowledge. However, Magic Vocations that narratively rely on a character's physical body, such as genetic bloodline or biological magic, might also include STR as one of its Magic Vocation Governing Attributes.

### Magic Resource Name

Determining what fuels the Magic System is crucial. Is it the will of the caster, their connection with nature, or their connection to a divine entity? An example of a magic resource name is "Mana". See the Magic Resource rules for more information about the actual mechanics.

### Magic Governing Core Skill

A Magic Governing Core Skill is a Core Skill that is associated with a Magic Vocation. Used for instances when a character over-exerts themselves with their Magic Skill from their Magic Vocation, is trying to regain Magic Resource, or maintaining concentration on an already cast spell.

Examples of Magic Governing Core Skills:

* Magic that relies on the body to produce Magic Resource could use Endurance. (Bodily Magic)
* Magic that is equivalent to science or engineering, that relies only on the raw knowledge of the user could use Knowledge. (Wizard Magic)
* Magic that relies on bending the world around them through sheer will, such as through the mind, emotion, or spirit could use Will. (Sorcery Magic)
* Magic that relies upon a belief in a divine higher power could use Will. (Cleric Magic)
* Magic that relies upon a relationship with a divine being or a pact with a nefarious entity could use Persuasion, as it is only through the connection to the entity that the magic is held together. (Warlock Magic)
* Magic that relies upon one's ability to communicate with nature could use Persuasion. (Druidic Magic)

### Magic Skills

A Magic Vocation should contain a list of the Magic Skills that fall under its umbrella. See Magic Skills rules for more information on how to create a Magic Skill list.

### Cantrip Name (Optional)

For a bit of extra flare, determining a new name for Cantrips (or Novice Magic) can make a Magic Vocation feel more unique.

## Magic Resource

The required fuel, energy, or materials required to use magic are known as Magic Resource.

### Regaining Magic Resource

Detailed below are various ways a character could regain Magic Resource. The amount of Short Rests and Absorbing Magic Resource tasks performed can not exceed your Vocation Level, resetting on long rests.

#### Short Resting

Depending on your magic system, maintaining one's physical health can restore Magic Resource over time. A short rest takes roughly 1 hour and the character does nothing demanding. During this time they can tend to wounds, eat, drink, or relax. Characters can regain Magic Resource equal to the wins from their Governing Core Skill roll (remember you can assist with your Magic Vocation). If negative or zero, none is regained.

#### Absorbing Magic Resource

Depending on your magic system, Magic users can absorb and feed on an ample source of primal elements/magic/power to regain Magic Resource using a Magic skill. Characters can regain Magic Resource equal to the wins from their Magic Skill roll (remember you can assist with your Magic Vocation). If negative or zero, none is regained. Absorbing or meditating near a large source of the elements/magic/power is acceptable. Flavor and creativity are encouraged.

#### Long Resting

This can be done by maintaining adequate nutrition, hydration, sleep, and stress levels. A long rest of roughly 8 hours of downtime. During this downtime, at least 6 hours must be devoted to sleep. While being awake for no more than 2 hours of a long rest, characters can treat wounds, eat, drink, relax, and stand watch.

## Magic Skills

Magic Skills represent the ability to manipulate and control different magic elements, concepts, or whatever the Narrator desires.

The CL of any Magic Skill check is proportionate to the amount of Magic Resource required as fuel to attempt the roll, unless otherwise stated.

### Unlocking Magic Skills

Novice Tier Magic Skills (level 0) can be unlocked under an appropriate Magic Vocation for 1 skill point.

Incompetent Magic Skills (level -1) can be given by the Narrator as appropriate with the narrative. In general, a character with a level 0 Magic Vocation can have 1 Narrator given Incompetent magic skill, gaining 1 additional Incompetent magic skill per increase to the Magic Vocation Level.

Examples of unlocking Incompetent Magic Skills:

* A minute latent genetic potential, such as from the race of the character. (Sorcerer)
* Partial knowledge of a type of magic learned quickly on the fly without the required study to be considered a novice. (Wizard)
* A minuet blessing bestowed by a deity. (Cleric)
* A taste of power from an entity looking to make a deal... (Warlock)
* A natural element foreign to a character's place of origin. (Druid)

### Magic Skill Roll

Magic Skill Roll =

- 3d6 (Base Dice, varies with Spellcasting Focus Base Dice)
- +Xd6 (per Magic Skill)
- +Xd6 (per Magic Skill Governing Attributes)

### Generic Magic Skill List

Below is a non-exhaustive list of common magic skill, feel free to create your own. You can also try grouping different magic concepts under one magic skill for a magic system. For instance, in the popular video game Skyrim, the Destruction school of magic covered Fire, Ice, and Lightning.

#### Magic Skill Name

The name of the Magic Skill in question. The example Magic Skill Names below are extremely generic. If you are creating a new magic system, these magic skills could have different names.

#### Damage Types

Determines the Damage Types the Magic Skill is capable of inflicting.

#### Melee Capable

Determines if this Magic Skill could be used for melee combat. A good rule of thumb is if it can't create something physical that could block a blow, then it probably isn't Melee Capable.

#### Range Capable

Determines if the Magic Skill in question is capable of affecting something at range, which determines if a Magic Skill can make ranged attacks.

|            Magic Skill Name            |              Damage Types              | Melee Capable | Range Capable |
| :-------------------------------------: | :-------------------------------------: | :-----------: | :-----------: |
| Bodily Magic (Flesh, Web, Bone, etc...) |      Slash, Bludgeon, Hew, Pierce      |     TRUE     |     TRUE     |
|           Fire or Heat Magic           |                  Fire                  |     TRUE     |     TRUE     |
|               Water Magic               |  Suffocation, Slash, Bludgeon, Pierce  |     TRUE     |     TRUE     |
|            Electricity Magic            |                Electric                |     TRUE     |     TRUE     |
|               Earth Magic               |      Slash, Bludgeon, Hew, Pierce      |     TRUE     |     TRUE     |
|                Air Magic                | Suffocation, Slash, Bludgeon, Shockwave |     TRUE     |     TRUE     |
|               Cold Magic               |                  Cold                  |     TRUE     |     TRUE     |
|          Nature or Plant Magic          |         Slash, Bludgeon, Pierce         |     TRUE     |     TRUE     |
|              Poison Magic              |                 Poison                 |     TRUE     |     TRUE     |
|               Soul Magic               |                Spiritual                |     FALSE     |     TRUE     |
|               Light Magic               |                 Radiant                 |     TRUE     |     TRUE     |
|              Shadow Magic              |                Necrotic                |     TRUE     |     TRUE     |
|               Mind Magic               |                 Psychic                 |     FALSE     |     TRUE     |
|             Magnetic Magic             |      Slash, Bludgeon, Hew, Pierce      |     TRUE     |     TRUE     |
|               Sound Magic               |                Shockwave                |     FALSE     |     TRUE     |
|               Blood Magic               |                  Bleed                  |     TRUE     |     TRUE     |
|               Acid Magic               |                  Acid                  |     TRUE     |     TRUE     |
|               Time Magic               |                                        |     FALSE     |     TRUE     |
|         Teleport or Space Magic         |                                        |     FALSE     |     TRUE     |
|         Force or Gravity Magic         |      Slash, Bludgeon, Hew, Pierce      |     TRUE     |     TRUE     |

### Combo Magic Skills

Another avenue to explore is how magic skills could be combined.

- Plasma Magic = Heat Magic + Air Magic
- Storm Magic = Air Magic + Electricity Magic + Water Magic
- Magma Magic = Earth Magic + Heat Magic
- Blizzard Magic = Cold Magic + Air Magic
- Frost Magic = Water Magic + Cold Magic

### Spellcasting Focus

All magic needs a Spellcasting Focus to be cast through wether a wizard's staff, a druid's focus, or even a character's own body. Just about anything can be made into a Spellcasting Focus from a narrative perspective, but it is up to the Narrator to decide if their are any restrictions in their magic system/setting.

Spellcasting Focuses often have Set Skill Base Dice Effects on them that influence the magic skills cast through it, assuming they apply to that skill.

## Spells

Spells are ways a character can use their Magic Skills.

Players can create Spells on the fly with the Narrator's approval. For instance, there is no need to have a predefined Spell for lighting a campfire with Fire Magic or clearing a collapsed tunnel with Earth Magic. The player can just describe what they are about to attempt with their magic and the Narrator will set the CL of the Spell just like any other skill check.

If the created Spell is worth remembering for later use or to share, it can be written down as a Spell such as in the Spell Tables below. It is worth remembering that the Spells on the table below are simply a snapshot of how someone used a Magic Skill for a Spell that they thought was reasonable. If a Narrator wanted to run a game with only pre-defined Spells (such as how D&D does) then they absolutely can.

To use a Spell a character must:

- Have a Magic Skill capable of performing the Spell.
- Achieve the CL required to cast the Spell with their Magic Skill Roll.
- Have enough Magic Resource to consume, which will always be equal to the Spell's CL.

The Magic Resource needed to cast the Spell is always consumed even if the Magic Skill Roll check is unsuccessful.

Certain Spells can consume additional Magic Resource to increase the Spell's effect. A Spell can only consume as much Magic Resource as the wins from the Magic Skill Roll.

### The Need For Reasonable Constraints On Magic

Stories are at there very core about some conflict. Everyone loves well thought our magic systems because they add interesting ways to resolve conflicts within a story. Whether it be the Force from Star Wars, Bending from Avatar, or Wizardry from the Dresden Files, "magic" in each setting gives the heroes and villains new ways to interact with the conflict of the story.

If a Magic System completely trivializes the conflict of the story, than the story won't grip the audience in the same way. Hence, the defining characteristic of really good Magic Systems are believable constraints that allow you to suspend your disbelief. Reasonable constraints, in a strange but true way, are what allow creativity, as without any constraints characters could just instantly resolve the conflict of the story with their magic.

For example, when Luke Skywalker famously picks up the X-wing from the swamp, it makes sense to our brains that it is difficult and straining to move something so large. It took disciple, training, and overcoming his own inner demons to eventually become powerful in the Force. Had Luke had insane Force power from the very beginning with no explanation and instantly defeated the entire Empire with them, I'd argue you'd have a horrible story.

Hence, the whole point of the Fogent Roleplay Magic rules is to help define reasonable constraints on any magic systems. This means the magic systems is constrained enough to not completely break the narrative, but open for creative solutions with magic.

### How To Elegantly Run Magic Systems

The trick with the Fogent Magic system is we already have the most important tools for covering most magic systems, skills and CLs. Whenever a player asks to use their Lift Skill to pick up a rock, the Narrator and players already have a rough idea of how hard that check should be. We can use the same intuitive understanding most of us have likely picked up from watch movies, reading books, or playing games to elegantly determine how difficult doing something with magic should be.

It is extremely intuitive that a character with Fire magic could Trivially (CL 0) light a campfire, assuming they have the required wood. In the same vein, it would be common (CL 1) for a character with Fire Magic to shoot a fire bolt at something reasonably close. The point being is that we don't technically need super defined rules for how every Magic Skill exactly works. We as consumers of stories and narratives already reasonably understand what these things should be able to do.

The caveat is that having super defined spells are very nice to have as they allow people to share cool ways they though of to use their magic skills. Therefore, all the defined Spell are just one way someone reasonably thought they could use a Magic Skill. This give the Narrator and players the ability to get a rough idea of what a magic skill is capable of at that CL. And if you did want a super "rules-as-written"constrained magic systems, than you can totally just define the exact ways that magic can be used for a magic system or setting. You get to have your cake and eat it too!

### Reasonable Ranges of Spells

Below are guide lines for the Ranges that Magic Skill can be used at for general narrative purposes, usually similar to the Avatar: The Last Air Bender techniques.

A character may attempt to use their magic within the following Ranges depending on how much Magic Resource that is consumed. If the Magic Skill used isn't Melee Capable, then any below option with the Range of Melee or Reach is unavailable. If the Magic Skill used isn't Ranged Capable, then any use of any ranged magic is unavailable.

| Magic Resource Consumed |      Range      |
| :---------------------: | :-------------: |
|            0            | Medium or Melee |
|            1            |  Far or Reach  |
|            2            |      Long      |
|            3            |     Distant     |
|            4            |  Sharpshooter  |

### Spell Concentration

Certain Spells demand a character's concentration to keep their effects active. If this concentration is interrupted, the Spell ends.

If a Spell necessitates concentration, the Duration entry of the spell will indicate this, and it will specify how long you can concentrate on it. You can stop concentrating at any time.

Regular activities, like moving or attacking, don't disturb your concentration. However, the following factors can disrupt your concentration:

* Casting another spell that requires concentration. If you cast a spell that needs concentration while you're focusing on a different spell, you lose concentration on the first spell. You can't concentrate on two spells simultaneously.
* Suffering damage. If you take damage while focusing on a spell, you must make a Magic Governing Core Skill check to maintain your concentration. The challenge level is equal to the level of injury taken. If you take damage from multiple sources, you make a separate saving throw for each injury source.
* Becoming Physically Incapacitated or dying. If you're Physically Incapacitated or die, you lose concentration on a spell.
* The Narrator might also decide that certain environmental phenomena might require the concentrating character to succeed on a Governing Core Skill check to maintain concentration. For example, a wave washing over you while you're on a storm-tossed ship might require a CL 2 Governing Core Skill Check.

### Using Spells In Combat

If a character intends to use Spells during a combat round, on the Declaration Phase they will declare what Spell they are attempting to use with the following rules in mind.

- A character can cast 1 spell per round that uses Magic Resource.
- A character can cast 1 spell per round that does not use Magic Resource.
- A character can only cast 1 spell per turn as their combat roll.

On the Action Phase, the character makes a Magic Skill roll to see if they were able to achieve the Spell they declared. If they succeed, the Spell is cast. If the Spell was a Weapon Spell, than the additional dice from the Weapon Spell are rolled and are combined with the already rolled Magic Skill dice, making up the Magic Combat Roll. If they were unsuccessful in casting the spell, the Spell is not cast but the magic resource is still consumed.

### Weapon Spells

**Casting Time:** Instantaneous

**Duration:** 1 round

From the Magic Skill used to cast this Spell, create flavored magic armaments for use in combat. As part of the same Weapon Spell, an armament can be created in each hand to benefit from the Dual Wielded Modifier or shield. The Defense the shield provides is dependant on the Magic Skill used. For instance, while Earth magic could create a Physical Defense Shield, it could not create a Mental Defense Shield.

Damage Types are determined by the Magic Skill used.

If the Magic Skill used isn't Melee Capable, then any below option with the Range of Melee or Reach is unavailable. If the Magic Skill used isn't Ranged Capable, then any use of any ranged magic is unavailable.

Weapon Spell Combat Roll = (Magic Skill roll) + (Weapon Spell Dice Modifiers)

Almost all traditional offensive magic spells can be represented as Weapon Spells.

- Bone Claws = Bodily Magic Skill + One-handed Slash Close Melee, Dual-wielded Slash Close Melee
- Fire Bolt = Fire Magic Skill + Light Crossbow
- Cone of Cold = Cold Magic + Magic Medium Cone
- Water Whip = Water Magic Skill + Whip
- Earth Shield = Earth Magic + Large Shield

#### Generic Magic Combat Roll Effects

|                        Name                        |  Variation  |                  Type                  | Optional Resource And Amount | Base Dice Adjustment | Dice Pool Modifier | Penetration |                                        Ranges                                        | Uses Per Round | Optional Area Of Effects | Damage Types | Governing Skill Name |                                                             Description                                                             |    Duration    | Source |
| :-------------------------------------------------: | :----------: | :------------------------------------: | :--------------------------: | :------------------: | :----------------: | :---------: | :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :------------: | :----------------------: | :-----------: | :------------------: | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :------------: | :-----: |
|            Dual-wielded {Skill} Unarmed            | Dual-wielded |            {Skill} Unarmed            |        {Resource}, 0        |          +0          |        -1d        |      0      |                                         Melee                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                           Just your bare hands. Can be used in a Grapple.                                           | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|        One-handed {Skill} Brutal Close Melee        |  One-handed  |       {Skill} Brutal Close Melee       |        {Resource}, 1        |          +1          |        +0d6        |      0      |                                         Melee                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                    Daggers, shortswords, claws, ect... Can be used in a Grapple.                                    | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|       Dual-wielded {Skill} Brutal Close Melee       | Dual-wielded |       {Skill} Brutal Close Melee       |        {Resource}, 1        |          +1          |        +1d6        |      0      |                                         Melee                                         |    Swift +1    |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                    Daggers, shortswords, claws, ect... Can be used in a Grapple.                                    | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|       One-handed {Skill} Balanced Close Melee       |  One-handed  |      {Skill} Balanced Close Melee      |        {Resource}, 1        |          +0          |        +0d6        |      1      |                                         Melee                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                            Small warpick, daggers, shortswords, claws, ect... Can be used in a Grapple.                            | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|      Dual-wielded {Skill} Balanced Close Melee      | Dual-wielded |      {Skill} Balanced Close Melee      |        {Resource}, 1        |          +0          |        +1d6        |      1      |                                         Melee                                         |    Swift +1    |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                            Small warpick, daggers, shortswords, claws, ect... Can be used in a Grapple.                            | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|     One-handed {Skill} Penetrating Close Melee     |  One-handed  |    {Skill} Penetrating Close Melee    |        {Resource}, 1        |          -1          |        +0d6        |      2      |                                         Melee                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                  Small club, crowbars, gauntlets, ect... Can be used in a Grapple.                                  | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|    Dual-wielded {Skill} Penetrating Close Melee    | Dual-wielded |    {Skill} Penetrating Close Melee    |        {Resource}, 1        |          -1          |        +1d6        |      2      |                                         Melee                                         |    Swift +1    |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                  Small club, crowbars, gauntlets, ect... Can be used in a Grapple.                                  | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|       One-handed {Skill} Brutal Medium Melee       |  One-handed  |      {Skill} Brutal Medium Melee      |        {Resource}, 1        |          +1          |        +1d6        |      1      |                                         Melee                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                Arming Sword, Sidesword, broadsword, falchion, messer, katana, scimitar, large creature claws, ect...                | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|       Two-handed {Skill} Brutal Medium Melee       |  Two-handed  |      {Skill} Brutal Medium Melee      |        {Resource}, 1        |          +1          |        +2d6        |      1      |                                         Melee                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                     Bastard Sword, Medium swords with two-handed grips, ect...                                     | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|      Dual-wielded {Skill} Brutal Medium Melee      | Dual-wielded |      {Skill} Brutal Medium Melee      |        {Resource}, 1        |          +1          |        +2d6        |      1      |                                         Melee                                         |    Swift +1    |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                Arming Sword, Sidesword, broadsword, falchion, messer, katana, scimitar, large creature claws, ect...                | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|      One-handed {Skill} Balanced Medium Melee      |  One-handed  |     {Skill} Balanced Medium Melee     |        {Resource}, 1        |          +0          |        +1d6        |      2      |                                         Melee                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       | Arming Sword, Sidesword, broadsword, falchion, messer, katana, scimitar, large creature claws, War pick, war hammer's spike, ect... | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|      Two-handed {Skill} Balanced Medium Melee      |  Two-handed  |     {Skill} Balanced Medium Melee     |        {Resource}, 1        |          +0          |        +2d6        |      2      |                                         Melee                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                      Bastard Sword, Medium swords with two-handed grips, War pick, war hammer's spike, ect...                      | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|     Dual-wielded {Skill} Balanced Medium Melee     | Dual-wielded |     {Skill} Balanced Medium Melee     |        {Resource}, 1        |          +0          |        +2d6        |      2      |                                         Melee                                         |    Swift +1    |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       | Arming Sword, Sidesword, broadsword, falchion, messer, katana, scimitar, large creature claws, War pick, war hammer's spike, ect... | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|     One-handed {Skill} Penetrating Medium Melee     |  One-handed  |    {Skill} Penetrating Medium Melee    |        {Resource}, 1        |          -1          |        +1d6        |      3      |                                         Melee                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                           War hammer, mace, large creature smash, ect...                                           | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|     Two-handed {Skill} Penetrating Medium Melee     |  Two-handed  |    {Skill} Penetrating Medium Melee    |        {Resource}, 1        |          -1          |        +2d6        |      3      |                                         Melee                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                           War hammer, mace, large creature smash, ect...                                           | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|    Dual-wielded {Skill} Penetrating Medium Melee    | Dual-wielded |    {Skill} Penetrating Medium Melee    |        {Resource}, 1        |          -1          |        +2d6        |      3      |                                         Melee                                         |    Swift +1    |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                           War hammer, mace, large creature smash, ect...                                           | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|           One-handed {Skill} Medium Spear           |  One-handed  |          {Skill} Medium Spear          |        {Resource}, 1        |          +2          |        +1d6        |      2      |                                         Melee                                         |     Quick     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                         Javelin, short spear, large creature horns, ect...                                         | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|          Dual-wielded {Skill} Medium Spear          | Dual-wielded |          {Skill} Medium Spear          |        {Resource}, 1        |          +2          |        +2d6        |      2      |                                         Melee                                         |     Quick     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                         Javelin, short spear, large creature horns, ect...                                         | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|               One-handed {Skill} Whip               |  One-handed  |              {Skill} Whip              |        {Resource}, 1        |          +0          |        +0d6        |      0      |                                         Reach                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                      Bullwhips, ect... Disadvantage while in confined spaces.                                      | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|              Dual-wielded {Skill} Whip              | Dual-wielded |              {Skill} Whip              |        {Resource}, 1        |          +0          |        +1d6        |      0      |                                         Reach                                         |    Swift +1    |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                      Bullwhips, ect... Disadvantage while in confined spaces.                                      | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|        One-handed {Skill} Brutal Large Melee        |  One-handed  |       {Skill} Brutal Large Melee       |        {Resource}, 1        |          +1          |        +0d6        |      1      |                                         Melee                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                     Longsword, Ōdachi, ect...                                                     | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|        Two-handed {Skill} Brutal Large Melee        |  Two-handed  |       {Skill} Brutal Large Melee       |        {Resource}, 1        |          +1          |        +2d6        |      2      |                                         Melee                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                     Longsword, Ōdachi, ect...                                                     | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|       One-handed {Skill} Balanced Large Melee       |  One-handed  |      {Skill} Balanced Large Melee      |        {Resource}, 1        |          +0          |        +0d6        |      2      |                                         Melee                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                           Longsword, Ōdachi, Bec de corbin spike, ect...                                           | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|       Two-handed {Skill} Balanced Large Melee       |  Two-handed  |      {Skill} Balanced Large Melee      |        {Resource}, 1        |          +0          |        +2d6        |      3      |                                         Melee                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                           Longsword, Ōdachi, Bec de corbin spike, ect...                                           | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|     One-handed {Skill} Penetrating Large Melee     |  One-handed  |    {Skill} Penetrating Large Melee    |        {Resource}, 1        |          -1          |        +0d6        |      3      |                                         Melee                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                    Two-handed Mace, maul, ect...                                                    | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|     Two-handed {Skill} Penetrating Large Melee     |  Two-handed  |    {Skill} Penetrating Large Melee    |        {Resource}, 1        |          -1          |        +2d6        |      4      |                                         Melee                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                    Two-handed Mace, maul, ect...                                                    | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|           One-handed {Skill} Large Spear           |  One-handed  |          {Skill} Large Spear          |        {Resource}, 1        |          +2          |        +0d6        |      2      |                                         Melee                                         |     Quick     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                      Two-handed spear, ect...                                                      | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|           Two-handed {Skill} Large Spear           |  Two-handed  |          {Skill} Large Spear          |        {Resource}, 1        |          +2          |        +2d6        |      3      |                                         Melee                                         |     Quick     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                      Two-handed spear, ect...                                                      | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|        One-handed {Skill} Brutal Reach Melee        |  One-handed  |       {Skill} Brutal Reach Melee       |        {Resource}, 2        |          +1          |        -1d        |      1      |                                         Reach                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                          Greatsword, zweihänder, naginata, ect... Disadvantage while in confined spaces.                          | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|        Two-handed {Skill} Brutal Reach Melee        |  Two-handed  |       {Skill} Brutal Reach Melee       |        {Resource}, 2        |          +1          |        +3d6        |      2      |                                         Reach                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                          Greatsword, zweihänder, naginata, ect... Disadvantage while in confined spaces.                          | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|       One-handed {Skill} Balanced Reach Melee       |  One-handed  |      {Skill} Balanced Reach Melee      |        {Resource}, 2        |          +0          |        -1d        |      2      |                                         Reach                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                  Greatsword, zweihänder, naginata, halberd's spike, ect... Disadvantage while in confined spaces.                  | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|       Two-handed {Skill} Balanced Reach Melee       |  Two-handed  |      {Skill} Balanced Reach Melee      |        {Resource}, 2        |          +0          |        +3d6        |      3      |                                         Reach                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                  Greatsword, zweihänder, naginata, halberd's spike, ect... Disadvantage while in confined spaces.                  | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|     One-handed {Skill} Penetrating Reach Melee     |  One-handed  |    {Skill} Penetrating Reach Melee    |        {Resource}, 2        |          -1          |        -1d        |      3      |                                         Reach                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                    Poleaxe hammer, ect... Disadvantage while in confined spaces.                                    | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|     Two-handed {Skill} Penetrating Reach Melee     |  Two-handed  |    {Skill} Penetrating Reach Melee    |        {Resource}, 2        |          -1          |        +3d6        |      4      |                                         Reach                                         |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                    Poleaxe hammer, ect... Disadvantage while in confined spaces.                                    | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|           One-handed {Skill} Reach Spear           |  One-handed  |          {Skill} Reach Spear          |        {Resource}, 2        |          +2          |        -1d        |      2      |                                         Reach                                         |     Steady     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                     Pike, lance, ect... Disadvantage while in confined spaces.                                     | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|           Two-handed {Skill} Reach Spear           |  Two-handed  |          {Skill} Reach Spear          |        {Resource}, 2        |          +2          |        +3d6        |      3      |                                         Reach                                         |     Steady     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                     Pike, lance, ect... Disadvantage while in confined spaces.                                     | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|    One-handed {Skill} Thrown Brutal Close Melee    |  One-handed  |   {Skill} Thrown Brutal Close Melee   |        {Resource}, 0        |          +1          |        +0d6        |      0      |           Short (Normal), Short (Disadvantage), Short (Super Disadvantage)           |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                         Ninja stars, ect...                                                         | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|   Dual-wielded {Skill} Thrown Brutal Close Melee   | Dual-wielded |   {Skill} Thrown Brutal Close Melee   |        {Resource}, 0        |          +1          |        +1d6        |      0      |           Short (Normal), Short (Disadvantage), Short (Super Disadvantage)           |     Quick     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                         Ninja stars, ect...                                                         | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|   One-handed {Skill} Thrown Balanced Close Melee   |  One-handed  |  {Skill} Thrown Balanced Close Melee  |        {Resource}, 0        |          +0          |        +0d6        |      1      |           Short (Normal), Short (Disadvantage), Short (Super Disadvantage)           |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                      Throwing daggers, ect...                                                      | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|  Dual-wielded {Skill} Thrown Balanced Close Melee  | Dual-wielded |  {Skill} Thrown Balanced Close Melee  |        {Resource}, 0        |          +0          |        +1d6        |      1      |           Short (Normal), Short (Disadvantage), Short (Super Disadvantage)           |     Quick     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                      Throwing daggers, ect...                                                      | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|  One-handed {Skill} Thrown Penetrating Close Melee  |  One-handed  | {Skill} Thrown Penetrating Close Melee |        {Resource}, 0        |          -1          |        +0d6        |      2      |           Short (Normal), Short (Disadvantage), Short (Super Disadvantage)           |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                  Thrown small club, rocks, ect...                                                  | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
| Dual-wielded {Skill} Thrown Penetrating Close Melee | Dual-wielded | {Skill} Thrown Penetrating Close Melee |        {Resource}, 0        |          -1          |        +1d6        |      2      |           Short (Normal), Short (Disadvantage), Short (Super Disadvantage)           |     Quick     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                  Thrown small club, rocks, ect...                                                  | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|       One-handed {Skill} Thrown Medium Spear       |  One-handed  |      {Skill} Thrown Medium Spear      |        {Resource}, 0        |          +0          |        +1d6        |      2      |       Mediocre (Normal), Mediocre (Disadvantage), Mediocre (Super Disadvantage)       |     Quick     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                       Thrown Javelins, ect...                                                       | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|        One-handed {Skill} Thrown Large Spear        |  One-handed  |       {Skill} Thrown Large Spear       |        {Resource}, 0        |          +0          |        +1d6        |      3      |           Short (Normal), Short (Disadvantage), Short (Super Disadvantage)           |     Quick     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                      Thrown two-handed spears.                                                      | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
| One-handed {Skill} Sling with Standard Sling Bullet |  One-handed  |             {Skill} Sling             |        {Resource}, 0        |          +0          |        +0d6        |      0      |       Mediocre (Normal), Mediocre (Disadvantage), Mediocre (Super Disadvantage)       |     Quick     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                            A flexible strap used to hurl small objects.                                            | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|       One-handed {Skill} Brutal Hand Crossbow       |  One-handed  |      {Skill} Brutal Hand Crossbow      |        {Resource}, 1        |          +1          |        +0d6        |      0      |       Mediocre (Normal), Mediocre (Disadvantage), Mediocre (Super Disadvantage)       |     Quick     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                          Small crossbows designed to be held in one hand.                                          | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|       Two-handed {Skill} Brutal Hand Crossbow       |  Two-handed  |      {Skill} Brutal Hand Crossbow      |        {Resource}, 1        |          +1          |        +0d6        |      0      |          Medium (Normal), Medium (Disadvantage), Medium (Super Disadvantage)          |     Quick     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                          Small crossbows designed to be held in one hand.                                          | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|      Dual-wielded {Skill} Brutal Hand Crossbow      | Dual-wielded |      {Skill} Brutal Hand Crossbow      |        {Resource}, 1        |          +1          |        +1d6        |      0      |       Mediocre (Normal), Mediocre (Disadvantage), Mediocre (Super Disadvantage)       |     Steady     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                          Small crossbows designed to be held in one hand.                                          | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|      One-handed {Skill} Balanced Hand Crossbow      |  One-handed  |     {Skill} Balanced Hand Crossbow     |        {Resource}, 1        |          +0          |        +0d6        |      1      |       Mediocre (Normal), Mediocre (Disadvantage), Mediocre (Super Disadvantage)       |     Quick     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                          Small crossbows designed to be held in one hand.                                          | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|      Two-handed {Skill} Balanced Hand Crossbow      |  Two-handed  |     {Skill} Balanced Hand Crossbow     |        {Resource}, 1        |          +0          |        +0d6        |      1      |          Medium (Normal), Medium (Disadvantage), Medium (Super Disadvantage)          |     Quick     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                          Small crossbows designed to be held in one hand.                                          | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|     Dual-wielded {Skill} Balanced Hand Crossbow     | Dual-wielded |     {Skill} Balanced Hand Crossbow     |        {Resource}, 1        |          +0          |        +1d6        |      1      |       Mediocre (Normal), Mediocre (Disadvantage), Mediocre (Super Disadvantage)       |     Steady     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                          Small crossbows designed to be held in one hand.                                          | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|    One-handed {Skill} Penetrating Hand Crossbow    |  One-handed  |   {Skill} Penetrating Hand Crossbow   |        {Resource}, 1        |          -1          |        +0d6        |      2      |       Mediocre (Normal), Mediocre (Disadvantage), Mediocre (Super Disadvantage)       |     Quick     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                          Small crossbows designed to be held in one hand.                                          | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|    Two-handed {Skill} Penetrating Hand Crossbow    |  Two-handed  |   {Skill} Penetrating Hand Crossbow   |        {Resource}, 1        |          -1          |        +0d6        |      2      |          Medium (Normal), Medium (Disadvantage), Medium (Super Disadvantage)          |     Quick     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                          Small crossbows designed to be held in one hand.                                          | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|   Dual-wielded {Skill} Penetrating Hand Crossbow   | Dual-wielded |   {Skill} Penetrating Hand Crossbow   |        {Resource}, 1        |          -1          |        +1d6        |      2      |       Mediocre (Normal), Mediocre (Disadvantage), Mediocre (Super Disadvantage)       |     Steady     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                          Small crossbows designed to be held in one hand.                                          | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|      One-handed {Skill} Brutal Light Crossbow      |  One-handed  |     {Skill} Brutal Light Crossbow     |        {Resource}, 1        |          +1          |        +0d6        |      1      |              Far (Normal), Far (Disadvantage), Far (Super Disadvantage)              |     Steady     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                             Crossbows balancing power and reload time.                                             | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|      Two-handed {Skill} Brutal Light Crossbow      |  Two-handed  |     {Skill} Brutal Light Crossbow     |        {Resource}, 1        |          +1          |        +1d6        |      1      |              Far (Normal), Far (Disadvantage), Far (Super Disadvantage)              |     Steady     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                             Crossbows balancing power and reload time.                                             | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|     One-handed {Skill} Balanced Light Crossbow     |  One-handed  |    {Skill} Balanced Light Crossbow    |        {Resource}, 1        |          +0          |        +0d6        |      2      |              Far (Normal), Far (Disadvantage), Far (Super Disadvantage)              |     Steady     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                             Crossbows balancing power and reload time.                                             | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|     Two-handed {Skill} Balanced Light Crossbow     |  Two-handed  |    {Skill} Balanced Light Crossbow    |        {Resource}, 1        |          +0          |        +1d6        |      2      |              Far (Normal), Far (Disadvantage), Far (Super Disadvantage)              |     Steady     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                             Crossbows balancing power and reload time.                                             | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|    One-handed {Skill} Penetrating Light Crossbow    |  One-handed  |   {Skill} Penetrating Light Crossbow   |        {Resource}, 1        |          -1          |        +0d6        |      3      |              Far (Normal), Far (Disadvantage), Far (Super Disadvantage)              |     Steady     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                             Crossbows balancing power and reload time.                                             | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|    Two-handed {Skill} Penetrating Light Crossbow    |  Two-handed  |   {Skill} Penetrating Light Crossbow   |        {Resource}, 1        |          -1          |        +1d6        |      3      |              Far (Normal), Far (Disadvantage), Far (Super Disadvantage)              |     Steady     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                             Crossbows balancing power and reload time.                                             | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|      Two-handed {Skill} Brutal Heavy Crossbow      |  Two-handed  |     {Skill} Brutal Heavy Crossbow     |        {Resource}, 1        |          +1          |        +2d6        |      2      |             Long (Normal), Long (Disadvantage), Long (Super Disadvantage)             | Extremely Slow |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                   Crossbows designed for maximum power disregarding reload time.                                   | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|     Two-handed {Skill} Balanced Heavy Crossbow     |  Two-handed  |    {Skill} Balanced Heavy Crossbow    |        {Resource}, 1        |          +0          |        +2d6        |      3      |             Long (Normal), Long (Disadvantage), Long (Super Disadvantage)             | Extremely Slow |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                   Crossbows designed for maximum power disregarding reload time.                                   | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|    Two-handed {Skill} Penetrating Heavy Crossbow    |  Two-handed  |   {Skill} Penetrating Heavy Crossbow   |        {Resource}, 1        |          -1          |        +2d6        |      4      |             Long (Normal), Long (Disadvantage), Long (Super Disadvantage)             | Extremely Slow |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                   Crossbows designed for maximum power disregarding reload time.                                   | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|         Two-handed {Skill} Brutal Light Bow         |  Two-handed  |        {Skill} Brutal Light Bow        |        {Resource}, 1        |          +1          |        +1d6        |      0      |              Far (Normal), Far (Disadvantage), Far (Super Disadvantage)              |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                             Bows favoring easier drawing versus power.                                             | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|        Two-handed {Skill} Balanced Light Bow        |  Two-handed  |       {Skill} Balanced Light Bow       |        {Resource}, 1        |          +0          |        +1d6        |      1      |              Far (Normal), Far (Disadvantage), Far (Super Disadvantage)              |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                             Bows favoring easier drawing versus power.                                             | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|      Two-handed {Skill} Penetrating Light Bow      |  Two-handed  |     {Skill} Penetrating Light Bow     |        {Resource}, 1        |          -1          |        +1d6        |      2      |              Far (Normal), Far (Disadvantage), Far (Super Disadvantage)              |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                             Bows favoring easier drawing versus power.                                             | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|         Two-handed {Skill} Brutal Heavy Bow         |  Two-handed  |        {Skill} Brutal Heavy Bow        |        {Resource}, 2        |          +1          |        +2d6        |      1      | Sharpshooter (Normal), Sharpshooter (Disadvantage), Sharpshooter (Super Disadvantage) |     Quick     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                            Bows favoring power over easier drawing. Requires a minimum of 1 STR to draw.                            | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|        Two-handed {Skill} Balanced Heavy Bow        |  Two-handed  |       {Skill} Balanced Heavy Bow       |        {Resource}, 2        |          +0          |        +2d6        |      2      | Sharpshooter (Normal), Sharpshooter (Disadvantage), Sharpshooter (Super Disadvantage) |     Quick     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                            Bows favoring power over easier drawing. Requires a minimum of 1 STR to draw.                            | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|      Two-handed {Skill} Penetrating Heavy Bow      |  Two-handed  |     {Skill} Penetrating Heavy Bow     |        {Resource}, 2        |          -1          |        +2d6        |      3      | Sharpshooter (Normal), Sharpshooter (Disadvantage), Sharpshooter (Super Disadvantage) |     Quick     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                            Bows favoring power over easier drawing. Requires a minimum of 1 STR to draw.                            | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|       One-handed {Skill} Muzzleloading Pistol       |  One-handed  |      {Skill} Muzzleloading Pistol      |        {Resource}, 3        |          +0          |        +2d6        |      3      |       Mediocre (Normal), Mediocre (Disadvantage), Mediocre (Super Disadvantage)       | Extremely Slow |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                      Flintlock pistols, ect...                                                      | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|       Two-handed {Skill} Muzzleloading Pistol       |  Two-handed  |      {Skill} Muzzleloading Pistol      |        {Resource}, 3        |          +0          |        +2d6        |      3      |          Medium (Normal), Medium (Disadvantage), Medium (Super Disadvantage)          | Extremely Slow |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                      Flintlock pistols, ect...                                                      | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|      Dual-wielded {Skill} Muzzleloading Pistol      | Dual-wielded |      {Skill} Muzzleloading Pistol      |        {Resource}, 3        |          +0          |        +3d6        |      3      |       Mediocre (Normal), Mediocre (Disadvantage), Mediocre (Super Disadvantage)       | Painfully Slow |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                      Flintlock pistols, ect...                                                      | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|             One-handed {Skill} Arquebus             |  One-handed  |            {Skill} Arquebus            |        {Resource}, 3        |          +0          |        +0d6        |      4      |             Long (Normal), Long (Disadvantage), Long (Super Disadvantage)             | Extremely Slow |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                    Can be used as a Combat Roll.                                                    | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|             Two-handed {Skill} Arquebus             |  Two-handed  |            {Skill} Arquebus            |        {Resource}, 3        |          +0          |        +2d6        |      4      |             Long (Normal), Long (Disadvantage), Long (Super Disadvantage)             | Extremely Slow |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                    Can be used as a Combat Roll.                                                    | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|              One-handed {Skill} Musket              |  One-handed  |             {Skill} Musket             |        {Resource}, 3        |          +0          |        +0d6        |      5      | Sharpshooter (Normal), Sharpshooter (Disadvantage), Sharpshooter (Super Disadvantage) | Painfully Slow |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                   Flintlock smoothbore long guns.                                                   | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|              Two-handed {Skill} Musket              |  Two-handed  |             {Skill} Musket             |        {Resource}, 3        |          +0          |        +3d6        |      5      | Sharpshooter (Normal), Sharpshooter (Disadvantage), Sharpshooter (Super Disadvantage) | Painfully Slow |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                   Flintlock smoothbore long guns.                                                   | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|    One-handed {Skill} 9mm Semi-automatic Pistol    |  One-handed  |   {Skill} 9mm Semi-automatic Pistol   |        {Resource}, 4        |          +0          |        +2d6        |      5      |       Extended (Normal), Extended (Disadvantage), Extended (Super Disadvantage)       |    Swift +2    |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                          Glock 17, ect...                                                          | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|    Two-handed {Skill} 9mm Semi-automatic Pistol    |  Two-handed  |   {Skill} 9mm Semi-automatic Pistol   |        {Resource}, 4        |          +0          |        +2d6        |      5      |              Far (Normal), Far (Disadvantage), Far (Super Disadvantage)              |    Swift +2    |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                          Glock 17, ect...                                                          | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|   Dual-wielded {Skill} 9mm Semi-automatic Pistol   | Dual-wielded |   {Skill} 9mm Semi-automatic Pistol   |        {Resource}, 4        |          +0          |        +3d6        |      5      |       Extended (Normal), Extended (Disadvantage), Extended (Super Disadvantage)       |    Swift +2    |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                          Glock 17, ect...                                                          | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|      One-handed {Skill} 9mm Burst-fire Pistol      |  One-handed  |     {Skill} 9mm Burst-fire Pistol     |        {Resource}, 4        |          +0          |        +3d6        |      5      |       Mediocre (Normal), Mediocre (Disadvantage), Mediocre (Super Disadvantage)       |    Swift +2    |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                         Beretta 93R, ect...                                                         | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|      Two-handed {Skill} 9mm Burst-fire Pistol      |  Two-handed  |     {Skill} 9mm Burst-fire Pistol     |        {Resource}, 4        |          +0          |        +3d6        |      5      |          Medium (Normal), Medium (Disadvantage), Medium (Super Disadvantage)          |    Swift +2    |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                         Beretta 93R, ect...                                                         | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|     Dual-wielded {Skill} 9mm Burst-fire Pistol     | Dual-wielded |     {Skill} 9mm Burst-fire Pistol     |        {Resource}, 4        |          +0          |        +4d6        |      5      |       Mediocre (Normal), Mediocre (Disadvantage), Mediocre (Super Disadvantage)       |    Swift +2    |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                         Beretta 93R, ect...                                                         | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|       One-handed {Skill} 9mm Automatic Pistol       |  One-handed  |      {Skill} 9mm Automatic Pistol      |        {Resource}, 4        |          +0          |        +3d6        |      5      |           Short (Normal), Short (Disadvantage), Short (Super Disadvantage)           |     Rapid     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                          Glock 18, ect...                                                          | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|       Two-handed {Skill} 9mm Automatic Pistol       |  Two-handed  |      {Skill} 9mm Automatic Pistol      |        {Resource}, 4        |          +0          |        +3d6        |      5      |       Mediocre (Normal), Mediocre (Disadvantage), Mediocre (Super Disadvantage)       |     Rapid     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                          Glock 18, ect...                                                          | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|      Dual-wielded {Skill} 9mm Automatic Pistol      | Dual-wielded |      {Skill} 9mm Automatic Pistol      |        {Resource}, 4        |          +0          |        +4d6        |      5      |           Short (Normal), Short (Disadvantage), Short (Super Disadvantage)           |     Rapid     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                          Glock 18, ect...                                                          | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|   One-handed {Skill} 12 Gauge Pump-action Shotgun   |  One-handed  |  {Skill} 12 Gauge Pump-action Shotgun  |        {Resource}, 4        |          +0          |        +1d6        |      5      |       Extended (Normal), Extended (Disadvantage), Extended (Super Disadvantage)       |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                 Remington 870, Mossberg 500, ect...                                                 | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|   Two-handed {Skill} 12 Gauge Pump-action Shotgun   |  Two-handed  |  {Skill} 12 Gauge Pump-action Shotgun  |        {Resource}, 4        |          +0          |        +3d6        |      5      |       Extended (Normal), Extended (Disadvantage), Extended (Super Disadvantage)       |     Swift     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                 Remington 870, Mossberg 500, ect...                                                 | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|    One-handed {Skill} 5.56 Semi-automatic Rifle    |  One-handed  |   {Skill} 5.56 Semi-automatic Rifle   |        {Resource}, 5        |          +0          |        +1d6        |      6      |        Extreme (Normal), Extreme (Disadvantage), Extreme (Super Disadvantage)        |    Swift +2    |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                            AR-15, ect...                                                            | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|    Two-handed {Skill} 5.56 Semi-automatic Rifle    |  Two-handed  |   {Skill} 5.56 Semi-automatic Rifle   |        {Resource}, 5        |          +0          |        +3d6        |      6      |        Extreme (Normal), Extreme (Disadvantage), Extreme (Super Disadvantage)        |    Swift +2    |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                            AR-15, ect...                                                            | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|         One-handed {Skill} 5.56 Burst Rifle         |  One-handed  |        {Skill} 5.56 Burst Rifle        |        {Resource}, 5        |          +0          |        +2d6        |      6      | Sharpshooter (Normal), Sharpshooter (Disadvantage), Sharpshooter (Super Disadvantage) |    Swift +2    |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                            M16A2, ect...                                                            | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|         Two-handed {Skill} 5.56 Burst Rifle         |  Two-handed  |        {Skill} 5.56 Burst Rifle        |        {Resource}, 5        |          +0          |        +4d6        |      6      | Sharpshooter (Normal), Sharpshooter (Disadvantage), Sharpshooter (Super Disadvantage) |    Swift +2    |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                            M16A2, ect...                                                            | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|       One-handed {Skill} 5.56 Automatic Rifle       |  One-handed  |      {Skill} 5.56 Automatic Rifle      |        {Resource}, 5        |          +0          |        +2d6        |      6      |        Distant (Normal), Distant (Disadvantage), Distant (Super Disadvantage)        |     Rapid     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                             M4, ect...                                                             | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|       Two-handed {Skill} 5.56 Automatic Rifle       |  Two-handed  |      {Skill} 5.56 Automatic Rifle      |        {Resource}, 5        |          +0          |        +4d6        |      6      |        Distant (Normal), Distant (Disadvantage), Distant (Super Disadvantage)        |     Rapid     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                             M4, ect...                                                             | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|      One-handed {Skill} .308 Bolt Action Rifle      |  One-handed  |     {Skill} .308 Bolt Action Rifle     |        {Resource}, 5        |          +0          |        +1d6        |      7      |          Sniper (Normal), Sniper (Disadvantage), Sniper (Super Disadvantage)          |     Quick     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                       Remington M700, ect...                                                       | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|      Two-handed {Skill} .308 Bolt Action Rifle      |  Two-handed  |     {Skill} .308 Bolt Action Rifle     |        {Resource}, 5        |          +0          |        +4d6        |      7      |          Sniper (Normal), Sniper (Disadvantage), Sniper (Super Disadvantage)          |     Quick     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                       Remington M700, ect...                                                       | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|         One-handed {Skill} 5.56 Machine Gun         |  One-handed  |        {Skill} 5.56 Machine Gun        |        {Resource}, 6        |          +0          |        -2d        |      6      |        Extreme (Normal), Extreme (Disadvantage), Extreme (Super Disadvantage)        |     Rapid     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                            M249, ect...                                                            | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|         Two-handed {Skill} 5.56 Machine Gun         |  Two-handed  |        {Skill} 5.56 Machine Gun        |        {Resource}, 6        |          +0          |        +4d6        |      6      |        Extreme (Normal), Extreme (Disadvantage), Extreme (Super Disadvantage)        |     Rapid     |           None           | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                            M249, ect...                                                            | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|                                                    |              |                                        |                              |                      |                    |            |                                                                                      |                |                          |              |                      |                                                                                                                                    |                |        |
|           One-handed {Skill} RPG Launcher           |  One-handed  |          {Skill} RPG Launcher          |        {Resource}, 6        |          +0          |        -2d        |     10     | Sharpshooter (Normal), Sharpshooter (Disadvantage), Sharpshooter (Super Disadvantage) |     Paced     |       30 ft Sphere       | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                            RPG-7, ect...                                                            | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |
|           Two-handed {Skill} RPG Launcher           |  Two-handed  |          {Skill} RPG Launcher          |        {Resource}, 6        |          +0          |        +6d6        |     10     | Sharpshooter (Normal), Sharpshooter (Disadvantage), Sharpshooter (Super Disadvantage) |     Paced     |       30 ft Sphere       | {DamageTypes} |       {Skill}       |                                                            RPG-7, ect...                                                            | 1 Combat Round | {Skill} |

#### Shield Spells

|     Name     |                                   Effect                                   | Magic<br />Resource |
| :-----------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :-----------------: |
| Small Shield | Phy. Def. 1.00, Bodily Def. 1.00, Spiritual Def. 1.00, or Mental Def. 1.00 |          0          |
| Medium Shield | Phy. Def. 2.00, Bodily Def. 2.00, Spiritual Def. 2.00, or Mental Def. 2.00 |          1          |
| Large Shield | Phy. Def. 3.00, Bodily Def. 3.00, Spiritual Def. 3.00, or Mental Def. 3.00 |          2          |
